Add proposal for `topFrameMatches` and `excludeTopFrameMatches` (#802)
hober/web-extensions: proposals/content-script-top-frame-matching.md

    *   If any pattern contains a path component other than the wildcard path `/*` (i.e., it specifies a specific path like `/foo` or `/bar/*`), the browser must treat this as an error. Patterns without an explicit path or those explicitly using `/*` are considered valid.
        *   For static declarations in `manifest.json`, this should likely result in a manifest parsing error, preventing the extension from loading.
        *   For dynamic API calls (`registerContentScripts`, `updateContentScripts`), the promise **must** be rejected with an appropriate error (e.g., `Match patterns must not specify a path other than '/*'.`).

2.  **Injection Logic:** Assuming validation passes, a content script will be injected into a frame if and only if *all* the following conditions are met:
    *   All existing checks based on the frame's own URL and context are satisfied.
    *   And if `topFrameMatches` was specified, the origin of the top-level frame's URL matches at least one pattern in `topFrameMatches`.
    *   And if `excludeTopFrameMatches` was specified, the origin of the top-level frame's URL does *not* match any validated pattern in `excludeTopFrameMatches`.

> **Origin Definition:** The origin consists of the scheme, host, and port (e.g., `https://www.example.com:443`). Match patterns are compared against this origin. The path component of the top-level URL is ignored during matching, as enforced by the validation rule disallowing specific paths in the patterns.

Reviewer: Although this seems precise, it is leaving room for interpretation. I think that it would make most sense to use the origin following the interpretation of `match_origin_as_fallback: true` as specified at https://w3c.github.io/webextensions/specification/index.html#determine-the-url-for-matching-a-document . That part of the spec draft was added in https://github.com/w3c/webextensions/pull/542
My motivation for this interpretation is to make sure that `about:blank`, `blob:` etc can be matched (which would naturally happen if you look at the document's origin) AND also that http(s) documents would be matched even if `Content-Security-Policy: sandbox` were to be used, which would give it an opaque origin.

And also to specify what should happen if an origin cannot be determined, so that we don't have issues like https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1798225 (`[DNR] Matching of missing initiators and/or with an opaque origin`)

Reviewer 2: Considering potential support for `<extension_urls>`, we should specify how browsers should handle match patterns they do not understand. Whether or not `excludeTopFrameMatches` should become a no-op or simply prevent the content script from running.

Author: @Rob--W Updated the proposal to use the W3C spec for origin matching and to clarify behavior for unknown origin. Let me know if it didn't hit the mark. 

@carlosjeurissen  It's a cop out, but I've added -> "The browser must validate all patterns provided in `topFrameMatches` and `excludeTopFrameMatches` as it would validate patterns provided by `matches` and `excludeMatches`" as a base validation step for now.

## Specification

This proposal expands the definition of content scripts in both the `manifest.json` and the scripting API (`scripting.registerContentScripts`).

### Schema

#### Manifest `content_scripts` Entry

The object definition within the `content_scripts` array in `manifest.json` is expanded to include two new optional properties accepting arrays of match patterns.

```json5
{
  // ... existing content_script properties like "matches", "exclude_matches", etc.

  // If specified: Only inject if the top-level frame's origin matches at least one of these patterns.
  "top_frame_matches": ["MatchPattern"],

  // If specified: Only inject if the top-level frame's origin isn't a match for any pattern.
  "exclude_top_frame_matches": ["MatchPattern"]
}
```

> *Where `MatchPattern` is a string conforming to the standard [Extension Match Pattern syntax](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/match-patterns). 

Reviewer 2: Currently there is no webExtensions `standard`. Mdn seems like a more neutral reference.

```suggestion
*Where `MatchPattern` is a string containing a single match pattern as specified in [mdn [Match patterns](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/Match_patterns). 
```

        *   For static declarations in `manifest.json`, this should result in a manifest parsing error, preventing the extension from loading.
        *   For dynamic API calls (`registerContentScripts`, `updateContentScripts`), the promise must be rejected with an appropriate error (e.g., `Match patterns for top_frame_matches/exclude_top_frame_matches must not specify a path.`).

2.  **Injection Logic:** Assuming validation passes, a content script will be injected into a frame if and only if *all* the following conditions are met:
    *   All existing checks based on the frame's own URL and context are satisfied (e.g., `matches`, `excludeMatches`).
    *   And if `topFrameMatches` was specified, the **top-level document's origin** matches at least one pattern in `topFrameMatches`.
    *   And if `excludeTopFrameMatches` was specified, the **top-level document's origin** does *not* match any pattern in `excludeTopFrameMatches`.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If any of the match patterns is not supported or understood by the browser, a soft error should be thrown. In `topFrameMatches`, the pattern will be skipped. If `topFrameMatches` is, or thus will end up being empty, no content scripts will be injected.

If `excludeTopFrameMatches` is empty, the property will be ignored and not considered when injecting content scripts.
```

We should still determine what should happen in case invalid patterns show up in excludeTopFrameMatches.
